Before we go any further,
let's take a moment to compare and contrast
batch and stream processing so the pros and cons of each approach are more apparent.
Batch processing involves the periodic analysis unrelated groups of data.
Historically, this has been how most data engineers analyze data.
Batch processing remains an important approach from most,
if not all, data engineering organizations.
For example, you may write a job that joins or
aggregates the last hours of the data every hour on the hour.
The results of this kind of aggregation are typically written to
a long-term SQL like store for long-term analysis.
Importantly, customers of that data will only receive updates once an hour on the hour.
The best resolution of that data will always be one hour,
that's because the batch only runs once an hour.
Additionally, batch processing jobs typically work against multiple data stores,
so records may be added, deleted,
or modified between runs.
Again, the datastores they're using are also typically mutable.
The advantage of this approach however is that the analysis maybe it'll take advantage of
all the available data in the system and run
for longer periods of time than a stream processing pipeline.
With the advent of cheap commodity cloud computing
and the wide availability of inexpensive storage,
newer solutions such as stream processing have become feasible,
and sometimes even required to provide faster insight into our systems.
In contrast a batch processing,
stream processing runs every single time a new event is generated.
There is no fixed schedule for stream processing applications.
This means that the output of your stream processing pipeline is
likely as up-to-date as the latest event generated by your system.
A data consumed by stream processing applications is typically
immutable and can assume that
individual events will not be modified or deleted between runs.
Stream processing applications may themselves simply produce
more events rather than running to a longer-term datastore.
However, a disadvantage to this approach is that data may be so large
the stream processing system may not have
the context of all the data that has ever passed through the system.
That's not always the case,
but this means that while this data may be excellent
for trends over short windows of time,
it may not give us a full historical picture.
I think it's important to note that the differences we've
laid out here are generalizations, they're not hard rules.
There are batch jobs that will only look at limited subsets of data,
and there are stream processing jobs that can analyze all the data available on a system.
These scenarios are the exception not the rule however.
Finally, batch and stream processing are not mutually exclusive,
just want to reiterate this.
Just because you're using stream processing
doesn't mean that batch processing is no longer relevant.
The two types of processing approaches work really really well together, and in fact,
I recommend that you don't abandon batch processing,
stream processing compliments your batch processing jobs.
Batch systems can create events to feed industry and processing applications,
and similarly, stream processing applications can be part of batch processing analysis.